It's time for our first Dangerous Aside.
This is when we stop to warn you about
a real danger in the programming language.
We've already said that no
programming language is perfect.
And we've seen some caveats
in the JavaScript language.
But a Dangerous Aside is where we're
touching a subject that's so dangerous.
It's so easy to make a mistake and
it's so hard to track down.
That you need to always avoid it.
This Dangerous Aside has to do
with syntax parsers in JavaScript.
And its automatic semicolon insertion.
The syntax parser in JavaScript does
something that tries to be helpful.
You may have noticed that semicolons
are optional in core JavaScript.
You don't have to put a semicolon.
So why is this?
Because the JavaScript engine
does something for you.
If it sees one character at a time,
a certain statement,
it knows what the language expects.
It knows what the syntax should look like.
So if it sees that you're finishing
a line, that is, a carriage return.
Now a carriage return, that is when
you hit Enter on the keyboard.
It's an invisible character,
but it is a character.
So the syntax parser sees it,
knows what it is, and it says,
hey you're not allowed
to go to the next line
with this particular type of syntax,
with this particular statement.
So I'm going to go ahead and insert,
inject automatically a semicolon for you.
So anywhere where the syntax parser
expects that a semicolon would be,
it will put one for you.
That's why it's optional
when you're typing it.
Not because it's truly optional,
but because the JavaScript engine
is putting them where it thinks
they should be, if they're missing.
And that's all well and good, so rule one,
with this Dangerous Aside,
you should always put your own semicolons.
Because you don't want the JavaScript
engine to make that decision for you.
You want to be certain that you
are writing the code as it should be.
But more than that,
especially in the case of return,
automatic semicolon insertion can
cause a big problem in your code.
So I'm gonna create a simple
function called getPerson.
And it's just going to give
me back a simple object.
So I'm going to return, and
I'll use object literal syntax
to give me back an object.
Maybe firstname.
And it gives me back that person.
That's simple enough.
Then I'll call getPerson.
I wanna see what that value is.
So, I'll console.log it.
Got that?
So, I run the function, and
I output what it returns.
Which using object literal syntax,
should be a person with that first name.
This object containing a first name,
name value pair.
Let's run it.
Undefined.
Why?
Because of automatic semicolon insertion.
The JavaScript engine, if it sees a
carriage return after the keyword return,
it will automatically insert a semicolon.
So it essentially ran this code.
Even though you wrote something else, the
syntax parser chose to change your code.
And so by putting this object
literal syntax on a new line,
it caused the JavaScript engine to
decide to put in a semicolon, so
it simply returned.
It quit out of the function.
And all that you got was
an undefined result.
To fix this, we have to tell
the syntax parser what we're doing.
We have to prevent it from doing
automatic semicolon insertion.
Because as it goes character by character.
Instead of seeing the carriage
return after this phrase.
Let's use a space and
then a curly brace and
it knows that we've started
an object literal syntax.
And then it sees a carriage return and
that's okay.
It doesn't automatically insert
a semicolon in this case.
So, you may have noticed that I always put
my curly braces on the same line as my
functions and for loops and if statements.
That's not always necessary.
This is perfectly valid but
I do it so I never make this mistake.
So that my muscle memory, the way I
always write just avoids this problem.
So remember this.
This is how,
if you're going to return an object
from a function, you need to type it.
Otherwise it won't work because
the syntax parser doing
automatic semicolon insertion.
And everywhere where you would
expect to have a semicolon,
you should put one to avoid this
problem as much as possible.
It's very dangerous and
can be hard to track down.
All right.
Let's move on.